Welcome back.
In the previous video we talked about how functions can be passed around like data and this idea of
a function being passed around.
Besides just being something that performs actions and because of this you'll often hear people say
that functions are a first class citizen in JavaScript.
What does that mean.
Well it means three things.
Let me comment this out.
The first thing is that functions can be assigned to variables and properties of objects so that I can
do variable stuff equals to function in some languages I can't do that.
I can just run functions to perform actions but that's it in Javascript.
I can assign it to a variable or even an object property which then becomes a method.
What else can we do.
Well we can also pass functions as arguments into a function so I can do.
Function a that receives a another function and inside of this function I can run that function and
then maybe we can call a with a function inside of it.
Function console dialog
so that if I run this code I get high there I am able to pass a function as a parameter to a function.
Now I'm saying function a lot so I'm passing this which I can extract it away to a variable like we
did up here at 1 and pass it around like data.
It's almost as if I'm just passing it as a string and I'm saying hey here's here's some data for you
run it when you get into function a so that's very interesting.
And then the final piece of the puzzle is that we can return functions as a values from other functions.
What does that mean.
Well I can do this.
I can say function b that returns another function C and this function C contains console dialog.
So now if I run B I get function C but if I run that again
I get by or I can even assign it to a variable and then just call that valuable.
D So those are the three properties that make functions a first class citizen in JavaScript we're able
to assign two variables these functions we can pass these functions into arguments and we can also return
functions as values from another function and this goes back to what I said right.
Functions are data not only do they perform actions for us but they're also pieces of data that can
be passed around like first class citizens as if there were javascript types.
So anything you can do with other types you can do with a function and as a matter of fact this idea
of a first class citizen property in JavaScript introduces javascript to a whole world called functional
programming an entire section that we have coming up.
So now that we understand why functions are first class citizens let's dive deeper into some of the
interesting things we can do with it.
Now I'll see in the next one by.